---
title: "Efficient Skill Discovery via Regret-Aware Optimization"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2025-05-01-RSD
date: 2025-05-01
author: 'He Zhang, **Ming Zhou**, Shaopeng Zhai, Ying Sun, Hui Xiong'
publish: 'Proceedings of the 42nd International Conference on Machine Learning'
---


Unsupervised skill discovery aims to learn diverse and distinguishable behaviors in open-ended reinforcement learning. For existing methods, they focus on improving diversity through pure exploration, mutual information optimization,
and learning temporal representation. Despite that they perform well on exploration, they remain limited in terms of efficiency, especially for the high-dimensional situations.
In this work, we frame skill discovery as a min-max game of skill generation and policy learning, proposing a regretaware method on top of temporal representation learning that expands the discovered skill space along the direction of upgradable policy strength.
The key insight behind the proposed method is that the skill discovery is adversarial to the policy learning, i.e., skills with weak strength should be further explored while less exploration for the skills with converged strength.
As an implementation, we score the degree of strength convergence with regret, and guide the skill discovery with a learnable skill generator. To avoid degeneration, skill generation comes from an up-gradable population of skill generators.
We conduct experiments on environments with varying complexities and dimension sizes. Empirical results show that our method outperforms baselines in both efficiency and diversity.
Moreover, our method achieves a 15% zero shot improvement in high-dimensional environments, compared to existing methods.

## Bibtex

```bibtex
@inproceedings{zhangefficient,
  title={Efficient Skill Discovery via Regret-Aware Optimization},
  author={Zhang, He and Zhou, Ming and Zhai, Shaopeng and Sun, Ying and Xiong, Hui},
  booktitle={Forty-second International Conference on Machine Learning}
}
```

## PDF

<a href="/files/RSD.pdf" target="_blank">Efficient Skill Discovery via Regret-Aware Optimization</a>
