---
title: "CURE: Critical-Token-Guided Re-concatenation for Entropy-collapse Prevention"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2025-08-14-CURE
date: 2025-08-14
author: 'Qingbin Li, Rongkun Xue, Jie Wang, **Ming Zhou**, Zhi Li, Xiaofeng Ji, Yongqi Wang, Miao Liu, Zheming Yang, Minghui Qiu, Jing Yang'
publish: 'arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.11016'
---

Recent advances in Reinforcement Learning with Verified Reward (RLVR) have driven the emergence of more sophisticated cognitive behaviors in large language models (LLMs), thereby enhancing their reasoning capabilities. However, in prior RLVR pipelines, the repeated use of static initial-state sampling drawn exactly from the dataset distribution during each sampling phase produced overly deterministic, low diversity model behavior, which manifested as rapid entropy collapse and hindered sustained performance gains during prolonged training. To address this issue, we introduce CURE (Critical-token-gUided Re concatenation for Entropy-collapse prevention), a two-stage framework that balances exploration and exploitation. Specifically, in the first stage, to deliberately steer the model toward novel yet coherent contexts, we re-generate at high-entropy critical tokens and jointly optimize the original and the branched trajectories. The further comparison with vanilla DAPO shows that the regeneration process achieves a better performance on math reasoning tasks while sustaining a high-level entropy degree for exploration. In the second stage, we continue training with static initial-state sampling by DAPO, intentionally placing the model in a familiar state to gradually strengthen exploitation. Extensive experiments on Qwen-2.5-Math-7B show that, compared to other RLVR methods, CURE achieves a 5% performance gain across six math benchmarks, establishing state-of-the-art performance in both entropy and accuracy. A series of experiments further validate the effectiveness of our approach. Code will be open-sourced in [volcengine/verl](https://github.com/volcengine/verl)

## Bibtex

```bibtex
@article{li2025cure,
  title={CURE: Critical-Token-Guided Re-concatenation for Entropy-collapse Prevention},
  author={Li, Qingbin and Xue, Rongkun and Wang, Jie and Zhou, Ming and Li, Zhi and Ji, Xiaofeng and Wang, Yongqi and Liu, Miao and Yang, Zheming and Qiu, Minghui and others},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.11016},
  year={2025}
}
```